this is William O'Connell and we're
talking about the assassination of
President Kennedy and the Warren
Commission report and our guest today is
mrs. Sylvia Marr New York City and this
is Marv as some of you may already know
is the author of a number of articles
that have appeared recently and the
minority of one and her principle
contribution in the field of scholarly
research is a subject index to the
Warren Report which is indeed an index
not only of the report itself but the 26
volumes of testimony and exhibits
printed by the Government Printing
Office and mrs. Marr resides in New York
City and she happens to be out here on a
tour at the present time and we have
prevailed upon her to come to Los
Angeles and if my listeners will forgive
me a personal note I want to say that
this is perhaps of all the interviews
I've conducted the one that I've been
most looking forward to so I want to say
and I'm glad to be able to say finally
welcome mrs. martyr KPFK thank you good
very good to be here let me begin
straightaway by asking you what it was
that brought you to her serious and
scholarly study of the assassination and
also I think part of that question that
follows is how did the subject index
itself come about well in common with
many other people in in this country I
found that the initial story out of
Dallas on Friday the 22nd of November in
1963 was so highly implausible and
unconvincing then I began from that day
to follow with a very great interest all
the information that was published
during the succeeding year published in
the press and in the magazines seeking
some kind of rationale
explanation of these events and of the
alleged motivation and a commission of
this crime and at no point during that
time did I find that there was coherence
plausibility and directness that in fact
I think it is extraordinary how many
revisions continually took place
unabashedly revisions of the evidence
that would flow through the papers
especially the revisions of the autopsy
medical findings an area of evidence
which should not have been subject to so
many contradictions and changes that in
spite of this strong skepticism I felt
from the beginning when the Warren
Report was published I think I was quite
prepared if that was a thoroughly
convincing and straightforward well
supported document I think I would have
accepted it I would have come to accept
that all of these improbabilities
coincidences changes in the presentation
of the case by the various authorities
whether the Dallas police and district
attorney the FBI or the Commission
itself during the term of its work I
would have accepted all of that as
unfortunate evidences of certain
confusion and non coordination
however the Warren Report I'm speaking
now only of the 888 page document that
was published in September 1964 seemed
to me marked by internal contradictions
to some degree but more particularly
marked by an evasive nosov language that
troubled me deeply
there were many passages in many points
on which the language of the report was
so a fuss Kotori and the lacking in in a
directness and candor it seemed to me
that I wondered and I was I was deeply
concerned about the reasons for the
writers of the report to have gone
through these rather exquisite efforts
to say certain things in a way that
seemed overcautious over contrived and
began to await the publication of the 26
volumes of the hearings and exhibits in
the hope that these volumes would throw
light upon many of the areas which left
me still greatly in doubt and with many
misgivings I mean I asked how long was
the time lapse between the appearance of
the Warren report itself and and the
actual issuance of the 26 volumes of
testimony and exhibits it was two months
and I remember my own personal
excitement when the crate arrived it was
and I believe the day before
Thanksgiving in 1964 and I plunged into
these volumes with truly enormous
interest and curiosity and the hope of
again finding those answers which I had
failed to find in the Warren report
itself
now unless say that reading these
volumes far from laying these misgivings
that in common with many other people I
have felt greatly intensified them I
found not only contradictions which
indicated carelessness
predisposition of the Commission to
certain findings
unfair tactics in the examination of
witnesses I found as many other people
have pointed out that there were
favorable witnesses I'm using wrong
terminology here there were the
witnesses that the friendly witnesses
friendly witnesses and hostile witnesses
which in itself is entirely
inappropriate to any fact-finding
investigation you should not have
friendly nor hostile witnesses aside
from these evidences of carelessness and
bias I found absolutely unambiguous
instances of misrepresentation effect
misrepresentation of the facts in the 26
volumes as they were reflected in one
report itself and these in a number of
instances were on crucial points of the
evidence now in my study of the 26
volumes which as you know bill I'm sure
that you've encountered the same
difficulty it is very difficult to
locate material I found that what was
happening was something that I had seen
somewhere in the volumes which I wanted
to find again caused me to spend some
four and five hours at times looking for
this there was no way to locate it in
many instances there was absolutely no
way to locate it either by the footnotes
in the report or any other method and so
I began to draw up something of an index
for my own personal use to save the time
than I was losing and scouring the
hearings and exhibits and this was just
done on just pieces of paper with
notations in pencil and intended it only
for my private use in checking out the
evidence on any particular point as far
as it could be
act out as I was engaged on this work
and I think one or two people with whom
I was in contact at that time knew that
I was working on this index for myself
they impressed upon me the fact that all
of the researches would have equal need
for such an index they would all be able
to save time and it was suggested to me
by Vince Landry of Philadelphia that it
would be of such great help to all the
researches to have such an index he
urged me to drop all my other studies in
the report and hearings and exhibits as
of that time and concentrate on the
subject index and to have it published
and distributed an idea which I must
admit had not occurred to me and I felt
that he was probably quite correct and
that this would be a service to
everybody who was taking interest in the
evidence and so I I did give that
priority i when I had started to do
which was writing up some of the
discrepancies some of the incoherence
and contradictions in the evidence I
concentrated on the subject index I I
wish bill that I'd had a great deal more
time to devote to compiling the index I
I feel it has definite imperfections
that should be greatly refined
there are also some errors and omissions
in spite of those defects I think it has
been useful well it's an invaluable
research aid to anyone who is doing any
sort of serious work on the 26 volumes I
think that both the defenders of the
Commission's
point of view and the critics would
would agree to that which leads me if I
can interject just a point here you say
in the explanatory note of the subject
index you say while the subject index
utilizes the footnotes in the report it
derives primarily from detailed study
and critical analysis of the hearings
and exhibits consequently it includes
negative references
I wonder if you would explain precisely
what you mean by that and tell our our
listeners what those negative references
consist of yes certainly bill the Warren
Report of course provides footnotes
which document its assertions or
supposedly do in some cases they
actually do not I might add but
theoretically evening footnotes document
their assertions for example in the area
of marksmanship
the marksmanship of the alleged lone
assassin the footnotes refer you back to
the testimony of various persons who
provided the Commission with some
support for its conclusion that Lee
Harvey Oswald did have the necessary
skill as a rifleman but those footnotes
do not of course refer back to such
testimony as for example Dean Adams
Andrew Jr Andrews jr. of New Orleans a
lawyer who had apparently had had
contacts with Oswald who had consulted
him about seeking a reversal of his
unsatisfactory discharged from the
Marine Corps and who gave us his
personal opinion in most striking and
strong statement in which he stated his
categorical conviction that Oswald could
not have committed this crime because he
did not and could not have had the
necessary skill as a rifleman in which
he discussed his own experience as the
marksman when he was in the service and
the deterioration of any skill even if
it is at a high level without constant
and daily target practice and as this
was a most striking passage of testimony
which was totally ignored I believed
that it was very necessary in any
discussion of Oswald's marksmanship and
I do have such a classification in the
subject index to include not only what
was said by
what I might call the government
witnesses who provided some degree or
another of support of the Commission's
conclusion but to provide the contrary
evidence but this is not really a a
prime example of negative references I
think a better one would be the example
of let us say the assertions about
Oswald's use of the alias any hot dog in
this case the Commission makes a series
of assertions of fact a for example that
when Oswald was being driven from the
Texas theater to the police station
under arrest
ostensibly for the murder of tippet that
he had refused to give his name or his
address and that the detective seated
next to him in the automobile I had put
his hand in Oswald's pocket pulled out
his wallet and found in that wallet a
fabricated identification card in the
name of a hotel now in landok tsiyon
clued not only references to the
testimony which assert that this took
place in the car but I include also the
contemporaneous report of the detective
in question in which he gives an account
of this ride from the theater to the
police station and he makes no mention
whatsoever of finding this card in the
name of a hotel or any other reference
to the name a hotel and not this
detective alone but in fact the
contemporaneous reports of all of the
police officers in that car and and I
call it a negative reference in the
sense that it these documents do not
include as one would expect that they
would include a reference to this highly
important event that supposedly took
place the discovery of a fabricated
identification
on the suspect and there are many other
instances of this kind but I think the
general idea is quite clear that I have
tried to include citations to testimony
or documents which should bear out
contentions and report but failed to do
so
right in mentioning Oswald we're almost
jumping to a question that I was going
to save for later in the program but
it's the question of Oswald's a guild
[Music]
Life magazine and The Saturday Evening
Post amongst the mass media publications
have begun to question the findings and
the conclusions and the overall
viability of the reconstruction of the
assassination made by the Warren
Commission
but these publications which are what
say eminently respectable except almost
without qualification the case which the
Commission maintains against Oswald as
the lone assassin and in terms of the
physical evidence they maintain that its
weight is almost overwhelming and I
think perhaps Epstein alone amongst the
critics does the same thing do you think
that Oswald's guilt and implication in
this crime has or has not been amply
demonstrated I think that the evidence
clearly demonstrates that Oswald was
entirely innocent of this crime and
indeed of the two other crimes charged
to him the murder of tippet and the
alleged attack on general Walker and I
say this purely on the basis of the
official published evidence I'm sorry
that one aspect of the evidence has
received quite inadequate attention
except perhaps from Leo Savage in his
book the Oswald affair
and that is Oswald's alibi even by the
Commission's rather unfair
reconstruction of his alleged movements
by which he was able to reach the second
floor of the depository from the sixth
floor of the depository after a number
of rather time-consuming procedures when
he theoretically left the window from
which the shots had been fired and that
as he had to wedge his way out from
behind this barricade of cartons he had
to hide the rifle rather carefully was
not discovered immediately and run down
the stairs and enter a lunchroom the
condition reenacted this alleged
progress of Oswald from sixth floor
window to the second floor lunchroom
timing him as against the police officer
Marion L Baker who encountered him there
which in itself was most unfair because
he should have been timed against Roy
truly the superintendent of the
depository who had preceded Baker on the
stairs but this is one anomaly there are
other anomalies in the reconstruction I
don't think I should take the time to go
into them now but even under the
Commission's reconstruction and its data
Oswald had a margin of a maximum of 16
seconds and a minimum of one second to
reach that second-floor lunchroom
had he been coming from the sixth floor
I think it's it's a travesty of justice
to convict a man on a margin of 1 to 16
seconds of a crime where the other
evidence is so deplorable feeble where
there is no motive there is no means and
there is no opportunity and in the
process of depriving this man of what
appears to me as well as
to mr. surage and to other critics to be
any an extremely powerful alibi there
has been a great deal of shenanigans
about the bottle of coke that he was or
was not drinking when he was encountered
by ml Baker the policeman the initial
stories out of Dallas was that when
Oswald was encountered he was drinking a
coke Oswald himself in his first
interrogation by captain Fritz on Friday
afternoon said that he was drinking a
coke when this incident occurred and I
think as the facts of the case were
assembled with more detail by the
authorities it became apparent that had
he truly been holding a coke it would
have taken him more than his margin of
about 16 seconds to fish change out of
his pocket in certain machine wait for
the Potter to drop open the bottle and
and be standing with the coke in his
hand this destroyed the allegation that
he had sufficient time to reach the
second floor and to be standing there
calmly when ml Baker approached him and
so the story was revised it was then
said on all sides that Oswald was not
holding the bottle of coke that when he
was encountered by Baker but oddly
enough when people are off guard who
have some authoritative knowledge of
this incident when they're off guard
they seemed to restore his bottle of
coke ml Baker himself when he was asked
by the FBI I believe is September 23rd
just a few days before the report was
issued to provide an affidavit it's not
clear why they asked him he had already
testified but he was asked to give an
affidavit repeating in in very summary
form the fact that he had been in the
motorcade that he had heard shots and
that he had dashed into the building and
what had been transpire
it was written in this affidavit I ran
up to second floor and I saw a man
drinking a coke and then the words
drinking a coke have been crossed out
and initialed MLB by Baker and very
recently I believe it was late in
December mr. Albert Jenner jr. who was a
senior counsel to the Warren Commission
and responsible for some vital areas of
the investigation he gave a broadcast a
telecast I'm sorry it was a television
interview on a program called you're
right to say it which was broadcast or I
should say rebroadcast in New York at
the end of December it had been taped
perhaps some weeks before that yes I
think it was announced for showing
locally on any tea the local educational
television station but I haven't seen it
myself as yet perhaps it will be seen
later well I hope it will be but I hope
it will be seen by an audience which is
in a position to recognize the almost
unbelievable misstatements of important
fact in mr. Jenner's presentation on
that program as well as certain
statements and assertions which seem to
me and to others who are well informed
that this case to be pure invention one
of the statements that mr. Jenner made
and I think in this case he was
inadvertently correct in discussing the
evidence against Oswald he he made the
statement that Oswald was and counted on
the second floor drinking a coke within
a very short time after the shots and I
say I believe he was inadvertently
correct he would not intentionally have
said have acknowledged that he was
drinking a coke since he was defending
the conclusions of the Commission and on
initiates the time of reconstruction
absolutely absolutely indeed I think the
whole time reconstruction is officiated
even without this bottle of coke I
mentioned it in particular because it's
the most
graphic reason and it's not perhaps very
easy to go into the other details of the
reenactment which involved timing and
other factors of a somewhat mathematical
nature in which to make this quite
graphic to the listener I think even
without the deprivation of the bottle of
coke this alibi is sustained because the
the reenactment itself is a very
defective one I think anyone who is
interested in and looking into this
further should read mr. Leo Cervantes
chapter on Oswald's alibi in his book
the Oswald affair which is published by
the world publishing company well now
you have a book coming out yourself in
the fall accessories after the fact will
you deal with some of this in your book
or yes yes I'm doing with this as part
of a larger chapter on Oswald's
activities in the depository but before
the shots and and after the shots well
do you feel then mrs. Maher this is a
question that I put to a recent critic
on this program if indeed Oswald was not
doing the things in the depository and
elsewhere imputed to him by the
Commission do you feel nonetheless that
it is incumbent upon critics of the
report to provide some kind of
reconstruction of their own as to what
did happen or or not certainly not
they're certainly not any attempt to
give the critics parity with Warren
Commission is is sophistry and is most
unwarranted the Warren Commission had
virtually unlimited resources both in
manpower funds laboratory facilities
whatever was needed and subpoena power
and we had subpoena power which is by
far from being the least of these
necessary powers and authorities and
resources for an investigation
the critics up until very recently have
worked unknown to each other making in
the
we quite parallel discoveries and
reaching parallel conclusions and I
think it's only perhaps within the last
year that there has been any continuous
exchange of information or even
acquaintances among most of the critics
there were some interchange I think
beginning not too long after the report
was published but we were then working
in an atmosphere of total deafness and
taboo no one and certainly not these
important periodicals that you mentioned
life was Saturday Evening Post no one
was willing to entertain any discussion
which kind of doubt only one report or
what do you attribute this change in
climate to what has caused this
turnabout in the fortunes of the critics
of the report and presumably the
receptive audience that is now reading
these critiques I believe that Epstein's
book inquest was the pivotal factor in
in opening the door then had been
tightly shot it was a book that was
introduced by a quite eminent journalist
Richard Revere and which had many
credentials and which had quite uniquely
the fruit of Epstein's and personal
interviews of many of the lawyers and
many of the members of the Commission
who gave him information which was
otherwise unknown and unsuspected which
passed very serious doubt upon the
working methods of the Warren Commission
I believe this was the crucial factor in
opening the path for the discussion
which has since developed the national
debate one might almost say and we've
come a very long way from the the era of
taboo when this was simply not discussed
and it's quite respectable now isn't it
well it's respectable if you if you
abide by certain rules
and one of the rules is that you respect
and and affirm the probity of the Warren
Commission although you are now
permitted to charge the Commission with
carelessness and with inadequacy in its
investigation indeed senator Cooper
himself was very recently quoted in the
New York Times I believe and saying that
there were defects in the report there
were areas that should have been
investigated that or not now it is also
respectable to say there might have been
more than one assassin so long as you
affirm that Oswald was guilty that was
implicated was a part of perhaps a
conspiracy of two people and of course
it's preferable to postulate that these
were to us was to random unmotivated
neurotic people who had some kind of
motive less motive it is not yet
acceptable that to the establishment
media to even discuss the possibility of
Oswald's total innocence nor to discuss
the even more horrifying to them at
least lack of probity of the Warren
Commission now I I don't think any of
the critics relish making charges for
the sake of their own sensationalism and
it is rather sensational I suppose to
even suggest that the Warren Commission
deliberately issued a false indictment
of Oswald yet it is really inescapable
that there are many assertions in the
report which are clearly
misrepresentations of the evidence and
were written this honestly
now congressman Gerald Ford in his book
portrait of the assassin has maintained
that nothing went into that report that
wasn't cleared by every one of these
seven members of the Commission that
they went over every sentence and every
word and nothing could go in that had
any sort of dubious antecedents in fact
he said the unofficial motto of the
Commission was truth is our only client
here but bill if this is truth then
black is white night is day and war is
peace this is not truth this is a false
document and I think it's a matter of
perhaps some more time before those who
would not even at one point discuss any
skepticism of the finding that Oswald
was the lone assassin but who are now
willing to discuss the possibility that
he had an accomplice I think that has
another year or two giving more time
more knowledge of the actual facts by
the media and by writers and by public
figures I think will become quite
apparent to them that it is essential to
discuss the innocence of Oswald if in
this country we have any true fidelity
to these principles to which we give
great lip service and one is the
principle of justice to all individuals
the OPS you are and the powerful it
doesn't matter who they are justice is
an indivisible thing and if we are
prepared to sacrifice it in any
situation and I don't care what the
apparent stakes may be but the minute
you are prepared to sacrifice an Oswald
of any description and you don't need to
like him
and I don't say that I myself find him
easy to understand or to identify as a
person nor nor would I even say that I
like him
certainly don't admire him this is not
necessary in order to defend this man if
he is innocent
would you have attempted to understand
Oswald you have attempted to examine a
possible role for him
I recall two articles that appeared in
1966 in the minority of one and I
wondered if we could address ourselves
to them now in one article you were
examining the contention of some critics
that Oswald conceivably had been an
agent of espionage on the part of the
United States government
although the article that you wrote
dealt primarily with Lee Oswald and the
United States United States State
Department and you discuss such things
as the obtaining of his passport to go
abroad the lookout file that should have
been established upon his return as a
defector I wonder if we could you know
address ourselves to some of the
questions that you felt were raised by
what you said was the Commission's
inadequacy in in confronting or dealing
with this this evidence is it
conceivable that that the government was
winking at known spy activities by a
former citizen when Oswald was
readmitted to this country no I have
more confidence in the government's care
than to think such a thing
the government's care for our national
security I think we must go back even
beyond the issuance of the passport or
the failure to insert lookout cards in
this man's file go back to the time in
1959 in October that he was on his way
to the Soviet Union he had sailed from
New Orleans and landed in the Harve and
gone to London
and according to Warren Report he left
London on October 9th 1959 by air
arrived in Helsinki on the 10th where he
stayed for some days obtained a visa to
enter the Soviet Union and proceeded to
the Soviet Union from Helsinki now the
documents bring to light a quite
puzzling phenomenon that the report as I
mentioned says that Oswald left London
on October 9th 1959 for Helsinki but the
exhibits and I might add that the
exhibits it has been admitted by count
former counsel to the Commission that
the exhibits that went into these 26
volumes were not examined they were not
selected by the legal counsel it is not
known who selected them who compiled and
who published you know who arranged them
for publication but it has been admitted
that the lawyers themselves did not make
the selection and it's perfectly obvious
that no careful check was made to ensure
that the exhibits and the testimony
published I should say just the exhibits
not the testimony the exhibits in this
case were consistent with the assertions
and conclusions in the report so that in
these exhibits we find with reference to
the date of Oswald's departure from
London we find in his passport a stamp
of the airport officer London Airport
showing that Oswald left on October 10th
1959 now this in itself may seem the
most insignificant error of one day in
in presenting a date which is a very
remote from the circumstance of the
assassination a remote in time and other
levels however in conjunction with this
there is also a series of reports by the
CIA which made an investigation and
inform the Commission that there was no
commercial flight by which Oswald
could have left London on October the
10th 1959 and arrived in Helsinki in
time to register sometime before
midnight in the Helsinki hotel which he
did he did register before midnight in a
whole helsinki hotel and it is only if
you are betrayal a change his departure
date from London that you can account
for his presence there when he arrived
however since the passport has been
stamped October 10th the Commission has
not only misrepresented the date in its
report but in misrepresenting the date
it has dismissed entirely without
confronting or solving it the problem of
how how did our world get from London to
Helsinki is it possible that the CIA is
mistaken that there was a commercial
flight is it possible that he went on
some military transport I mentioned the
possibility of military transport
because the documents indicate that at a
much later stage in June in early 1962
prior to his return to United States in
June 62 there were problems of Oswald's
travel together with his wife and child
by then back to the United States
financial problems it had not been found
possible for him to obtain the money
needed for this travel and it seems that
he himself suggested the possibility of
his return via some military aircraft
and I believe he specifically mentioned
from a German base which suggests to me
that perhaps he had one prior experience
of such travel in any case this did not
happen because when all other means were
exhausted of his obtaining funds with
which to return to United States the
State Department although he meant none
of the criteria that would entitle him
for a loan of government funds did
advance to him the necessary money for
his return together with his wife and
child
and in many other aspects of their
relationship with Oswald the State
Department behaved in a way that anyone
who has studied its operation in cases
of this kind or indeed in cases
involving far milder offenses than
attempted defection then announced
intention to give military secrets to
the Russians their behavior has been so
utterly atypical so utterly out of line
and so consistently out of line that
questions must arise as to Oswald's true
relationship with the United States
authorities at that period of time what
was the Soviet attitude the attitude of
the Soviet government with reference to
Oswald after he appeared in the in the
Soviet Union don't do the supporting
volumes give us an indication though
there is no direct evidence from Soviet
authorities on this it is true that the
exhibits include certain documents out
of the Soviet Union file on our world
which was turned over to the United
States authorities by the Soviet embassy
in Washington but these documents do not
cover their evaluation of him when he
arrived and attempted to defect so that
the information we have is fragmentary
and hearsay but insofar as light is
thrown on this in the volumes it appears
that the Soviets were most reluctant to
accept him as a as a naturalized citizen
of the Soviet Union in fact it was their
coldness toward him that apparently
caused him to contrive this so-called
suicide attempt in which is obvious from
study of the circumstances that he was
made quite sure in slashing his left
wrist that he was not going to die that
he knew that somebody would arrive
momentarily as indeed took place he was
then taken to a Soviet hospital where
interestingly enough
he of course received a psychiatric
screening a psychiatric evaluation as is
true I think in almost any American
Hospital attempted suicide cases are
considered psychiatric cases and are
screened and the findings were that this
man is not dangerous to anyone that he
was stable knew what he was doing he's
perfectly rational I think that their
documents at least suggest that that the
Soviet authorities themselves had
reached the conclusion that he contrived
this alleged suicide attempt I don't
mean that didn't take place I mean that
it wasn't a genuine attempt to kill
himself in order to provide himself with
a guarantee of an extension of his stay
in Soviet Union and he was then
apparently given a stateless persons
document which permitted him to work in
a radio parts Factory in Minsk there is
no indication at any time that the
Soviet authorities accepted or trusted
him I think they were a very dubious of
him they never gave him citizenship and
he did apply for it by the way he did
apply and it was rejected by the Soviet
Presidium this is of course only hearsay
evidence from one of the officials of
the American Embassy in Moscow who was
told this I believe at a cocktail party
by Soviet official but there's no
documentation on the point I think the
Soviet government did not accept as
valid
Oswald's defection and his declarations
of loyalty to the Soviet Union I think
they must have thought that he was
untrustworthy not merely in the sense of
an unstable personality and there had
been defectors who were merely unstable
personalities who were trying for
reasons of their domestic relations to
escape responsibility by means of
defection I think they suspected him as
being politically a fraud that he was
not really a seeking Soviet citizenship
out of deep conviction or anything like
that they may even have suspected him of
being an American agent although they
didn't have access then to all the
documents which have now been published
and which seemed to me to present a
strong prima facie case for his having
at that time in 1959 a clandestine
assignment from some American government
agency Jack couldn't go any further than
that bill because the evidence doesn't
permit anything beyond this inference I
noticed in inquest I believe it was
Epstein cites the fact that the Soviet
Union at least their NKVD or one of
their intelligence divisions furnished
the Warren Commission or our government
with certain information as to Oswald's
rifle capability during the time he was
in the Soviet Union am I correct in that
is this in the report or or in the 26
volumes no in this Sun no it is no this
information was received from a Soviet
defector who interesting enough defected
not long after the assassination it was
a matter of months as I recall it
although without checking it obscene
text I wouldn't be sure this defector
was able to leave either the Soviet
Union or perhaps some embassy it's not
specified where he may have been
stationed bearing with him the Soviet
Union's file on Oswald this is what
Epstein asserts and it has not been
challenged by anybody and I don't know
the contents of the file he brought
other than what Epstein quotes that he
was such a poor marksman that when he
went on hunting parties with his friends
in Minsk using a shotgun which it has
been established he did possess a
shotgun and belong to a hunting Society
in Minsk but he was such a poor shot
that to save face to save him
embarrassment
his friends would give him some of the
game they had shot because he had he
hadn't succeeded in bringing down
anything and this of course was not
mentioned anywhere in the Warren Report
of the 26 volumes nor did they even
mention the defector in question or the
fact that he had brought out with him
and turned over to the American
authorities a file on Oswald a Soviet
file on Oswald nor do we know from
Epstein's book or from any other source
the other contents of that file moving
Lee Oswald physically from the Soviet
Union then to Dallas some weeks prior to
the assassination you've examined a
number of contradictory appearances by
ally Oswald and it seems to me it
pertains to a resolving of an issue of
not only identification but veracity by
the confrontation of eyewitnesses to a
particular happening one eyewitness with
the other and you maintain that indeed
the Commission didn't do that and I
wonder if you could relate to our
listeners the particulars of that
particular that that specific article
that you you wrote do you recall what I
mean well I think you're referring to
the incident of the auto demonstration
and the Bogart allegations about a
customer who identified himself as
Oswald whom he Bogart believed to be
Oswald this is really was first brought
up by again by Alejo Savage in a
magazine article I believe in commentary
early in 1964 or perhaps in the reporter
magazine enormous commentary because it
was an article that was crucial in my
interest in the case yes well he he
first wrote about this series of
allegations by various witnesses of a
man identified as Oswald which suggested
to him the possibility that Osmond
had been deliberately impersonated in
order to incriminate him in advance of
the assassination now I have made a
particular and close study of the whole
constellation of two Oswald episodes so
far as the Bogart one is concerned I
think the onus there must be placed only
two FBI agents who interviewed Bogart
the morning after the assassination when
someone other than Bogart reported to
the FBI that Bogart had indicated that
Oswald had come to look at a car and had
said that he expected a large sum of
money in the near future with which he
could buy this car paying cash and that
would have required some 3,000 to 3,500
dollars this in itself immediately
suggested that he might be in a
conspiracy and expected to receive money
for having shot at the president and
this is in the context of these
circumstances as they existed on
Saturday morning the 23rd of November
now the two FBI agents who interviewed
Bogart
it seems to me under the most elementary
concepts of criminal investigation
should immediately have taken this man
to the Dallas Police Station because
there was much corroboration for his
story there were other people in the
auto agency who are able to confirm that
such a man had been there he another of
the salesmen orrin Braun had also jotted
down the name Oswald on a slip of paper
as had Bogart and there was no reason to
suspect that this man had invented the
story he he had not even reported the
story it had been done by another
salesman and under the most elementary
criminal investigative procedures those
two FBI agents should have taken Bogart
the prime witness to the police station
where Oswald was under interrogation
where he was being shown two witnesses
in identification lineups this they did
not do when I was was at a loss
to understand that not only did they not
confront Bogart with Oswald and ask him
to say whether or not this was indeed
the customer but so far as the available
records indicate they did not even
report this to the Dallas police or
other authorities who were investigating
the assassination which had occurred on
the day before they did not even report
this even though it was again prima
facie evidence that this man might have
been a paid assassin I don't believe he
was and I don't believe that this has
been borne out in any way on the
contrary by subsequent evidence but I'm
speaking in terms of the contemporaneous
circumstances and I fail to understand
the failure of the FBI to take the
necessary steps now that failure must be
aligned with certain other evidence and
I'm sorry to be leaving the question but
to oswald's I'd like to return to that
but the other evidence of an ambiguous
relationship between Oswald and the FBI
one was the famous incident of the fact
that in his notebook he had noted the
name phone number and license plate
numbers of FBI agent James P hasti jr.
the man who was in fact in charge of the
Oswald dossier and who claimed that he
had never seen spoken to nor interviewed
Oswald but had merely made two very
brief visits to the home of Ruth Payne
in Irving and who was unable himself to
account for the presence of the license
plate numbers in Oswald's notebook that
the Commission says in its report that
Marina Oswald testified that she had
copied these license-plate numbers
because all the world had once told her
that if some if any FBI agent came
around to do that now the statement in
the report is quite literally correct
Marina Oswald did so testify and this is
typical of some of the the fundamental
misrepresentation because you can tell
literal truth and still misrepresent the
truth it's true that Marina Oswald so
testified but it is also true that only
two only two occasions that she could
have copied down this number the
commission itself established in its
investigation and its examination of
witnesses that on neither occasion could
she possibly have seen the license
plates much less the license plate
numbers so that it is a an evasion of a
rather ugly sort to say in the report
which is the literal truth yes marina
Oswald did testify she had jotted down
the license plate numbers and given them
to her husband but the Commission proved
to its own satisfaction mr. Jenner
himself accompanied by Secret Service
agent John Jo Howlett experimented to
see if it had been possible for her to
copy these numbers and they said to each
other you cannot even see the license
plate much less than numbers on the one
occasion when the car was parked at the
house on the other visit of hasti he had
parked the car about a block away or a
good part of a block away where not only
could be license plate numbers not be
seen but you would have no way of
knowing that that was the car in which
hasti arrived
now of course I'm treating this episode
in my my study of the Warren
Commission's work which is called as you
said before accessories after the fact
but before I elaborated this in the
manuscript I felt that I should make a
further attempt to understand this by
writing to the Commission Council who
had in fact investigated this and
performed the experiment that is same as
degenerate and so I wrote to mr. Jenner
I believe it was quite early or in the
middle of the year of 1965 I wrote to
mr. Jenner detailing all of the known
facts as I had gleaned them from the
published documentation which presented
dilemma that while the report says that
she copied these numbers that all the
available evidence suggest that she
could not have copied those numbers and
that we still therefore still did not
know how those numbers found their way
into Oswald's notebook and when one
considers the many other ambiguities
that involve his possible relationship
with the FBI that has become a rather
important question how did the numbers
get there I presented all of this to mr.
Jenner in a most respectful letter
asking if he could possibly enlighten me
and I received a very courteous
acknowledgement in which mr. Jenner said
that he had to leave town just then on
some legal business but he would return
on July 19th 1965 would look into the
matter and I would hear from him very
shortly and I never did hear from him as
the weeks passed and I think even months
passed I became very concerned that he
had not as he had volunteered to do
written me about this to clarify it so I
wrote him again referring to our
previous correspondence to his
undertaking to write to me and clarify
this matter and asking him to please let
me hear from him and that I hoped he
would still write and still give me the
facts and that letter has never been
answered at all in view of the fact that
I was unable to obtain any clarification
I felt that I had to treat this in my
examination of the evidence not the lack
of fidelity between the one report on
one side and the 26 volumes of hearings
and exhibits on the other I know I may
be leading you into the area of
speculation but the question that seems
to present itself in my mind then is as
we as we possibly see Oswald in the role
of a creature of perhaps the CIA or
FBI on the one hand you see him involved
not at all in the assassination and yet
we find him in the Texas School Book
Depository at the time and does this
pose a dilemma or an interesting
occurrence of a chance or just what how
do we how do we deal with this or do you
feel compelled to to find a thread that
would make it meaningful bill I can only
say that the known evidence presents
such a mystery in such a paradox and
such a potentially sinister circumstance
that it must be re-examined that is all
I can say I feel I do not have
sufficient information I was not able to
obtain sufficient information because I
wrote also to congressman Ford and Jay
Lee Rankin on other aspects of what
appeared to me to be a most ambiguous
set of facts involving Oswald's possible
a relationship with the FBI or other
government agencies without replied
again I would add I believe this must be
looked at very carefully and very
objectively by a new investigation as
must must almost every other aspect of
the so-called evidence against Oswald
which I think almost without exception
is far less secure
far less hard evidence than one would
think
from reading the one report alone I
think many analysts of the report in
quite good faith have had at an earlier
stage written criticisms of the
Commission's methods and to an extent of
its apparent prejudice and and
preconceptions but had accepted the
basic findings I having
and a professor Herbert Packer who wrote
in the nation even Murray Kempton who
wrote the New Republic and white
McDonald I would add who wrote in
Esquire magazine all of this at a quite
early stage late in 1964 early 65
excepting what the Commission presented
as hard evidence as being in fact hard
evidence which a scrutiny of the
hearings and exhibits reveals to be
quite soft and in some cases quite slimy
and slippery well in in deference to
Murray Kempton I think he did say at the
time that for the most part the Warren
Commission even at that early date
appeared to him to be no better than a
prosecution document indeed that was the
title of his article the case for the
prosecution he has since incidentally in
his introduction to Professor Richard
Hopkins paperback book the to Oswald's I
believe it's called or is that the
fourth Oswald I forget but a Campton
wrote an introduction to that paperback
in which it's evident that on the basis
of subsequent revelations he has nothing
but contempt for the one Commission's
conclusions and its report and again
this is an evidence of a gradually
rising shift an expanding shift in
public opinion and in the opinion of
opinion makers which I believe in the
next few years will see even the present
taboos broken down that it will become
respectable to discuss Oswald's
innocence and it will become respectable
to criticize the Commission in terms
other than mere haste and Slaven
leanness and carelessness
well if with that note I'm going to have
to close in the hope that the dialogue
that we have been engaging in and in
recent weeks on this program will
continue in that spirit we've been
talking with Silvia Maher the author of
a subject index to the Warren Report and
considered by her colleagues to be the
foremost authority on the report itself
I want to thank you mrs. Maura for
coming to the studio today where do you
go now New York I'm hoping to return to
New York tonight bill and I want to
thank you for letting me come here
thank you so much